A September sunset in Fredericton, A. D. 1824. Much has been said and
sung about the beauteous scenes of nature in every clime. Scott has
lovingly depicted his native heaths, mountains, lochs and glens. Moore
draws deep inspiration amid scenes of the Emerald Isle, and strikes his
lyre to chords of awakening love, light and song. Cowper, Southey and
Wordsworth raised their voices in tuneful and harmonious lays, echoing
love of native home. Our beloved American poet has wreathed in song the
love of nature's wooing in his immortal Hiawatha. Forests in their
primeval grandeur, lovely landscapes, sunrise, noonday and sunset--each
has attracted the keen poetic gaze. Though not the theme of poet or
pen--who that looks upon our autumn sunset can deny its charms? The
western horizon, a mass of living gold, flitting in incessant array and
mingling with the different layers of purple, violet, pink, crimson, and
tempting hues of indescribable beauty; at intervals forming regular and
successive strata of deep blue and red, deepening into bright red.
Suddenly as with magic wand a golden cloud shoots through and transforms
the whole with dazzling splendour. The bewildering reflection upon the
trees as they raise their heads in lofty appreciation, forms a pleasing
background, while Heaven's ethereal blue lies calmly floating above. The
gently sloping hills lend variety to the scene, stretching in
undulations of soft and rich verdure; luxuriant meadow and cultivated
fields lie in alternate range. The sons of toil are returning from
labour; the birds have sought shelter in their nests; the nimble
squirrel hides beneath the leafy boughs, or finds refuge in the
sheltering grass, until the next day's wants shall urge a repeated
attack upon the goodly spoils of harvest. Soon the golden sheen is
departing, casting backward glances upon the hill tops with studied
coyness, as lingering to caress the deepening charms of nature's
unlimited and priceless wardrobe.

Amid such glowing beauty could the mind hold revel on a glorious
September sunset in Fredericton, 1824. To any one possessed with the
least perception of the beautiful, is there not full scope in this
direction? Is not one fully rewarded by a daily stroll in the suburban
districts of Fredericton, more especially the one now faintly described?
If any one asks why the present site was chosen for Government House in
preference to the lower part of the city, there would be no presumption
in the inference--selected no doubt with due appreciation of its view
both from river and hills on western side. Truly its striking beauty
might give rise to the well established title of "Celestial City."
Though unadorned by lofty monuments of imposing stateliness, costly
public buildings, or princely residences, Fredericton lays claim to a
higher and more primitive order of architecture than that of Hellenic
ages. The Universal Architect lingered lovingly in studying the effect
of successive design. Trees of grace and beauty arose on every side in
exquisite drapery, while softly curved outlines added harmony to the
whole, teaching the wondrous and creative skill of the Divine. The
picturesque river flows gently on, calm, placid, and unruffled save by
an occasional splash of oars of the pleasure seekers, whose small white
boats dotted the silvery surface and were reflected in the calm depths
below.